Martinh/ntt launchpad (#251)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/deployment-process/evm-launchpad.md

---
title: Native Token Transfers (NTT) Deploy via Launchpad
description: Easily deploy or expand your token across multiple chains using the NTT Launchpad.  
---

> # Native Token Transfers (NTT) Deploy via Launchpad

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploy Native Token Transfers (NTT) with Launchpad
```

Not sure, but NTT Deploy sounds kinda off

The NTT Launchpad enables seamless deployment and management of cross-chain tokens. This guide covers new token launches and expansion of existing tokens across multiple blockchains.

## Prerequisites

 - An EVM-compatible wallet (e.g., MetaMask, Phantom, etc.)
 - Minimum ETH (or equivalent) for gas fees per deployment

## Getting Started

> To begin, visit the [NTT Launchpad](){target=\_blank} and connect your wallet.

Reviewer: I'd probably remove this since the first step in the launch and expand sections is this same exact thing. It also makes a weird imbalance with headers and text.

I'd just change supported blockchains and choose your path to h2s.

### Supported Blockchains

> The NTT Launchpad currently supports deployments on the following Mainnet chains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NTT Launchpad currently supports deployments on the following mainnet chains:
```

 - Ethereum
 - Optimism Mainnet
 - Arbitrum One
 - Base

### Choose Your Path

Once ready, choose an option to proceed:

 - [**Launch a Cross-Chain Token**](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/deployment-process/evm-launchpad/#launch-a-cross-chain-token) - deploy a brand-new token that is NTT-ready from day one, enabling seamless transfers across multiple blockchains
 - [**Expand Your Existing Token**](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/deployment-process/evm-launchpad/#expand-your-existing-token) - if you already have a token deployed on different chains, integrate it with NTT to enable native token transfers without modifying its original contract

## Launch a Cross-Chain Token

> 

Reviewer: I'd add a brief intro sentence here before the steps so if users just scroll down to this section they know they're deploying a new token

4. Select the deployment chains. Choose the networks where your token will be deployed (Optimism and Base for this example) and click **Next**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-4.webp)

5. Deploy on the first chain (Optimism)
     - If your wallet is connected to Testnet, switch to Mainnet when prompted, then click **Deploy**

        ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-5.webp)

     - Your wallet will open to confirm the transaction
     - Once deployed, you can view the transaction in a block explorer and add the token to your wallet

        ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-6.webp)

6. Repeat the previous step to deploy the token on the second chain (Base)

    !!!note
        The supply of tokens on Base will be zero since the tokens were all minted on Optimism in the previous step.

7. Once both deployments are completed, proceed to the [**Dashboard**](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/deployment-process/evm-launchpad/#dashboard-overview) to manage your token.

## Expand Your Existing Token

> 

Reviewer: I'd add a brief intro sentence here before the steps so if users just scroll down to this section they know they're transforming their preexisting token into a multichain token, without having to change the contract

1. Open the [NTT Launchpad](){target=\_blank}, connect your wallet and click **Get Started**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-1.webp)

2. Select **Expand Your Existing Token**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-7.webp)

3. Choose the network where your token is deployed and enter your token contract address, finally click **Next**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-8.webp)

4. Choose the networks where you want to expand your token (e.g., Base in this example), then click **Next**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-9.webp)

5. Deploy on the first chain (Optimism)
     - If your wallet is connected to Testnet, switch to Mainnet when prompted, then click **Deploy**

        ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-5.webp)

     - Your wallet will open to confirm the transaction
     - Once deployed, you can view the transaction in a block explorer and add the token to your wallet

>         ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-6.webp)

Reviewer 2: In this example, where does deploying on Optimism come in?

You mention above that we are only expanding the existing token to Base.

Author: In step 3, we select Optimism as the home chain and paste the address of our already deployed token in Optimism. Then we need to integrate it with `ntt`, so we need to deploy it on Optimism and Base (peer chain).

6. Repeat the previous step to deploy the token on the second chain (Base)

    !!!note

>         This deployment will initialize the supply at zero.

Reviewer 2: I think the only step here should be deploying to Base, since we are expanding an existing deployment and we don't mention deploying to Optimism as part of this flow.

Can we also change the note to:

"The supply of tokens on Base will be zero, since the tokens currently all exist on the chain you are expanding from."

Author: Same as my previous comment:

"In step 3, we select Optimism as the home chain and paste the address of our already deployed token in Optimism. Then we need to integrate it with `ntt`, so we need to deploy it in Optimism and Base (peer chain)."

If the case was to add a new peer chain to an already ntt deployed token, the process has to be done through the settings in the dashboard.

> 7. Now that your token has been deployed on multiple chains, click [**Dashboard**](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/deployment-process/evm-launchpad/#dashboard-overview) to review its details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Now that your token has been deployed on multiple chains, click [**Dashboard**](#dashboard-overview) to review its details
```

## Dashboard Overview

Once your token has been successfully deployed, you can access the Dashboard to manage and track its details. Here, you can view its deployment status, monitor supply across chains, and configure transfer settings.

### Access the Dashboard

 - After deploying your token, click **Dashboard** on the final screen
 - You can also access it anytime from the [NTT Launchpad homepage](){target=\_blank}

![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-10.webp)

### Token Overview

The dashboard provides a high-level view of your token across all deployed chains:

 - Token addresses for each chain
 - Supply distribution visualization

>  - List of deployed chains, including inbound and outbound transfer limits, which can be modified in [**Settings**](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/deployment-process/evm-launchpad/#settings)

Reviewer: This feels like it could just be one section, something like this:

```
## Explore the Launchpad Dashboard

To access the **Dashboard** from the Launchpad home page, click on **Manage Deployment**. Here, you can view its deployment status, monitor supply across chains, and configure transfer settings.

![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-10.webp)

The dashboard provides a high-level view of your token across all deployed chains:

 - Token addresses for each chain
 - Supply distribution visualization
 - List of deployed chains, including inbound and outbound transfer limits, which can be modified in [**Settings**](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/deployment-process/evm-launchpad/#settings)

INSERT_IMAGE_OF_THE_DASHBOARD
```

---
title: Deploy Native Token Transfers with Launchpad

> description: Use the NTT Launchpad to deploy a new token or expand an existing one across multiple chains. Manage transfers, supply, and settings.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Deploy a new token or extend an existing one across multiple chains with the NTT Launchpad. Manage transfers, supply, and settings—all from a single platform.
```

 - Expanding an existing token for NTT
 - Managing tokens via the dashboard and settings

## Prerequisites

 - An EVM-compatible wallet (e.g., [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/){target=\_blank}, [Phantom](https://phantom.com/){target=\_blank}, etc.)
 - Minimum ETH (or equivalent) for gas fees per deployment

## Supported Blockchains

The NTT Launchpad currently supports deployments on the following mainnet chains:

 - Ethereum
 - Optimism Mainnet
 - Arbitrum One
 - Base

## Choose Your Path

Once ready, choose an option to proceed:

 - [**Launch a Cross-Chain Token**](#launch-a-cross-chain-token) - deploy a brand-new token that is NTT-ready from day one, enabling seamless transfers across multiple blockchains
 - [**Expand Your Existing Token**](#expand-your-existing-token) - if you already have a token deployed on different chains, integrate it with NTT to enable native token transfers without modifying its original contract

## Launch a Cross-Chain Token

Deploy a new NTT-compatible token that can be transferred across multiple chains. This process sets up your token on a home network and deploys it to additional blockchains. Follow the below steps to get started:

> 1. Open the [NTT Launchpad](){target=\_blank}, connect your wallet and click **Get Started**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the [NTT Launchpad](){target=\_blank}, connect your wallet, and click **Get Started**
```

    
2. Select **Launch a Cross-Chain Token**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-2.webp)

3. Set token details (home network, token name, token symbol, and initial supply) and click **Next**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-3.webp)

4. Select the deployment chains. Choose the networks where your token will be deployed (Optimism and Base for this example) and click **Next**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-4.webp)

5. To deploy on the first chain (Optimism), click on **Deploy**; if prompted, switch your wallet to the correct network and confirm the transaction

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-5.webp)

6. Once deployed, you can view the transaction in a block explorer and add the token to your wallet

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-6.webp)

7. Repeat the previous step to deploy the token on the second chain (Base)

    !!!note
        The supply of tokens on Base will be zero since the tokens were all minted on Optimism in the previous step.

> 8. Once both deployments are completed, proceed to the [**Dashboard**](#dashboard-overview) to manage your token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Once both deployments are completed, proceed to the [**Dashboard**](#explore-the-launchpad-dashboard) to manage your token.
```

## Expand Your Existing Token

Expand an existing token to support Native Token Transfers across multiple chains. This process integrates your deployed token with NTT without modifying its original contract. Follow the steps below to get started:

> 1. Open the [NTT Launchpad](){target=\_blank}, connect your wallet and click **Get Started**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the [NTT Launchpad](){target=\_blank}, connect your wallet, and click **Get Started**
```

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-1.webp)

2. Select **Expand Your Existing Token**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-7.webp)

> 3. Choose the network where your token is deployed and enter your token contract address, finally click **Next**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose the network where your token is deployed, enter your token contract address, and click **Next**
```

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-8.webp)

4. Choose the networks where you want to expand your token (e.g., Base in this example), then click **Next**

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-9.webp)

5. To deploy on the first chain (Optimism), click on **Deploy**; if prompted, switch your wallet to the correct network and confirm the transaction

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-5.webp)

6. Once deployed, you can view the transaction in a block explorer and add the token to your wallet

    ![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-6.webp)

7. Repeat the previous step to deploy the token on the second chain (Base)

    !!!note
        The supply of tokens on Base will be zero since the tokens were all minted on Optimism in the previous step.

> 8. Now that your token has been deployed on multiple chains, click [**Dashboard**](#dashboard-overview) to review its details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Now that your token has been deployed on multiple chains click [**Dashboard**](#explore-the-launchpad-dashboard) to review its details
```

The dashboard provides a high-level view of your token across all deployed chains, including:

 - Token addresses for each chain
 - Supply distribution visualization
 - List of deployed chains, including inbound and outbound transfer limits, which can be modified in [**Settings**](#settings)

![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-11.webp)

## Settings

The **Settings** page allows you to configure security parameters, role management, and transfer limits for your deployed token. You can switch between chains to manage these settings independently for each deployment.

### Chain Management

Use the drop-down menu at the top to select the chain you want to configure. The available options correspond to the chains where your token has already been deployed. Once selected, the page displays token details specific to that chain.

From this section, you can also:

 - **Pause the token** – temporarily turn off transfers on the selected chain
 - **Deploy to a new chain** – expand your token by deploying it to an additional chain

![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-12.webp)

### Role Management

> This section displays key roles involved in token governance. Users can view and modify these roles by selecting a new address and confirming the update. More details are available in the [NTT managers page](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/managers-transceivers/#managers){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section displays key [roles](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/configuration/access-control/){target=\_blank} involved in token governance. You can view and modify these roles by selecting a new address and confirming the update.
```

Reviewer: I don't think this is the correct link for this particular section. Like if you put yourself in the shoes of someone new and you're reading this section. First of all, why do I need to go to the NTT managers page? It doesn't even say anything about the NTT manager prior to the link. Then once you do go to the NTT managers page, it lists out functions that have nothing to do with role management. It lists functions on transfers, a delivery quote, etc.

This should probably be the link instead, which has a little bit more information about the owner and pauser roles: `docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/configuration/access-control/ `

 - **Manager’s Owner** – the owner through the `NTTOwner` proxy
 - **Pauser** – the address authorized to pause transfers

![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-13.webp)

### Security Threshold

> Determine and update how transceivers interact with the token. Transceivers route NTT transfers between blockchains, ensuring tokens are correctly sent and received across networks. They work with managers to process messages and maintain secure, reliable cross-chain transfers. More details are available in the [transceivers page](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/managers-transceivers/#transceivers){target=\_blank}.   

Reviewer: This is nice because there is a definition of transceivers, but this line "They work with managers to process messages and maintain secure, reliable cross-chain transfers" assumes that there is a prior knowledge of managers. This could be confusing to someone who doesn't know about managers

I would just remove that sentence and keep it simple. I'd also embed the link instead of adding extra text just for the link

"Determine and update how transceivers interact with the token. [Transceivers](/docs/build/contract-integrations/native-token-transfers/managers-transceivers/#transceivers){target=\_blank} route NTT transfers between blockchains, ensuring tokens are correctly sent and received across networks."

If you want to add a sentence to tie it altogether, I think there should be some sort of connection made between transceivers and security thresholds

>  - **Registered Transceivers** – displays the number of registered transceivers and their addresses

Reviewer: So this is not configurable? You're just covering it here cause it's in the UI?

Author: Yes, you can only configure the number of transceivers

Reviewer: Gotcha, ok thanks

>  - **Transceivers Threshold** – a configurable value that must be less than or equal to the number of transceivers

Reviewer: I think the question we need to answer here is why set it to a lower or higher rate?

![](/docs/images/build/contract-integrations/ntt/ntt-launchpad/ntt-launchpad-14.webp)

### Peer Chains Limits

> Define the transfer restrictions for each connected network. Users can adjust:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the transfer restrictions for each connected network. You can adjust:
```

>  - **Sending Limits** – defines the maximum amount of tokens that can be sent from this chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Sending Limits** – the maximum amount of tokens that can be sent from the home chain
```

>  - **Receiving Limits** – lists the peer chains and their respective receiving limits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Receiving Limits** – the maximum amount of tokens that can be received for each of the supported peer chains
```

Reviewer: This should focus on what you can configure rather than like a list of peer chains
